Hello and thank you for joining us.
In this presentation,
we'll discuss how you can implement Family Sharing
for your subscriptions and non-consumable in-app purchases.
I'm Bryan and I'm part of the App Store Monetization Team,
and I'm joined by Hemant, a developer advocate
on the App Store Commerce Team.
Today, I'll be giving you an overview
of Family Sharing for in-app purchases.
I'll then discuss the benefits of the feature
and give you some tips to make the most of it.
Finally, Hemant will discuss engineering and implementation.
So let's get started.
As a reminder, Family Sharing is a powerful tool
that makes it easy for customers
to share their digital purchases with their family members
across all of their Apple devices.
We launched it in 2014, and since then,
Family Sharing has become an important part
of the Apple ecosystem, bringing content and services
to more customers and more devices than ever before.
And we've expanded these capabilities
to StoreKit as part of our ongoing investment
in Family Sharing.
And that's what today's session is all about,
getting started with Family Sharing
for your auto-renewable subscriptions
and non-consumable in-app purchases.
In addition to being available
for both subscriptions and non-consumables,
Family Sharing enables Purchase Sharing
with up to five family members
included in a customer's family group.
As a developer, you can choose to implement it
on existing SKUs or create new ones
specifically for Family Sharing.
It's easy to implement within App Store Connect
and it provides a streamlined, convenient user experience
that can help you improve your monetization KPIs.
So how will Family Sharing for in-app purchases
help impact your business?
It helps in four key areas,
subscriber growth, increased engagement,
and reduction in churn,
which all add up to a higher customer lifetime value.
Here's how these metrics work together
using Michael as an example.
Family Sharing can be a compelling way
to grow your subscriber base
and attract Michael to your product.
Once you've acquired Michael as a subscriber,
he can extend his subscription
to the rest of his family members,
which ultimately multiplies the number
of customer touchpoints to your service and app.
And with the whole family now engaging with your product,
a compelling content offering
combined with effective engagement marketing
can keep them coming back,
and the overall effect of incremental users
getting value from your product and service
is reduction of churn.
And customers love Family Sharing too
because it enables them to share purchases
with their family members.
It's been engineered alongside iOS
to offer a seamless and easy to use out-of-box experience
that's consistent across devices and apps.
It's built with privacy in mind
and eliminates the need for password sharing
because each family member receives
their own entitlement to a purchase.
And finally, Family Sharing adds value to in-app purchases
by offering up to six entitlements instead of one.
This gives customers the ability to extend the number
of people with access to a purchase
and gives each family member a personalized app experience.
Now, let's talk about how customers and developers
can make the most of the feature.
Customers must first create a family group
in order to begin using Family Sharing for in-app purchases.
One adult in a household can do this
by inviting up to five of their family members to join
using their Apple IDs.
Each family member uses their own account
so their experience stays personalized and private.
And each family member will then get instant access
to the group's subscriptions and content
that is eligible for sharing
once the family group is created.
Let's take a look at how customers manage
their sharing preferences within the Settings app.
This is the Manage Subscriptions page
where customers can view all of the products
they're currently subscribed to.
The Share With Family toggle at the bottom of the page
allows them to choose whether or not
they automatically share
Family Sharing enabled SKUs moving forward.
This toggle is turned on by default
but customers can choose to opt out at any time.
Selecting any of the listed apps will allow you
to edit purchases and choose whether Family Sharing
is turned on or off for a specific subscription.
The initial setting is based
on the Share with Family preference
in the image on the left.
Customers can also come here to opt into Family Sharing
if it becomes available for an existing subscription.
These are the steps family groups
would need to take to share
their family shared subscriptions.
Family Sharing is enabled automatically
for any new purchases of family shared subscriptions.
When existing subscriptions
become available for Family Sharing,
the original purchaser has to opt
into sharing within settings.
This is to ensure the customer fully acknowledges
the updates to their subscription's terms.
While we highly encourage you to message the availability
of Family Sharing through your own marketing channels,
there are two use cases where the App Store
will message customers directly.
Purchasers will receive a push notification
when Family Sharing becomes available
on an existing subscription SKU,
and push notifications will also be sent to customers
that purchase a new Family Sharing enabled SKU
but have previously turned off
the share with Family Main Toggle
within the Manage Subscriptions page.
These push notifications will link customers
to the edit subscriptions page for that specific app
where they can choose to share it
with the rest of their family group.
and the process is slightly different
for non-consumable in-app purchases.
Family Sharing of non-consumables
is automatically enabled for both new and existing purchases
as long as Purchase Sharing is enabled in iCloud.
The family is sharing purchases and the app
is not hidden from purchase history.
Family members will automatically have access
to the content of the new purchases
but when Family Sharing becomes available
on an existing purchase,
family members will have to select
the Restore purchase button in order to unlock the content
that has newly become available to them.
This is the screen which includes the Share Purchases
with Family toggle, which must be turned on
in order to share the non-consumable with family members.
This page can be found by selecting Apple ID
followed by Family Sharing,
then Purchase Sharing within the Settings app.
There are a number of ways
to make your Family Sharing functionality
as discoverable and engaging as possible.
App Store Connect makes it easy
to turn on family sharing for all of your customers.
Consider including the functionality
in your onboarding flow to clearly communicate
the ability to share your subscription
with your family members as part
of the overall service value proposition.
It's also possible to offer Family Sharing
as a separate subscription tier.
This purchase flow clearly differentiates
between the available tiers and includes a link out
to the Family Sharing overview page
at the bottom of the screen.
If you do choose to offer Family Sharing
as a higher tier of service,
remember to group the higher tier
with the individual tier or tiers in App Store Connect.
This will allow you to offer upgrade messaging,
like this in-app example,
which highlights the value of upgrading
an individual subscriber's plan to the family tier.
After a new family member completes their purchase,
consider marketing the functionality
to remind them to encourage their family members
to take advantage of the service
as shown here on the left.
And on the right, you can see a message
for the family members
communicating that they now have access to the subscription.
Hemant will walk you through how to recognize
a family member and unlock access seamlessly
so they can start enjoying your service right away.
And here's a live example from Night Sky.
They're offering Family Sharing
to all their customers on an existing SKU.
On the left, you can see how they've clearly
highlighted Family Sharing within their signup flow
and promote that it's available at no extra cost.
And on the right, you can see they've given
the feature a dedicated page
within their post-purchase subscriber onboarding carousel
that encourages new plan owners
to take advantage of the benefits.
Here's a summary of a few items to keep in mind
when reviewing implementation plans with your team.
Consider the incremental value Family Sharing
could provide to your in-app purchases
and how you could use the feature
to bring new subscribers to your service,
decide whether you'll enable Family Sharing
on a new or existing SKU,
and work with your product and marketing teams
to create merchandising
that helps you encourage new subscribers
and increase engagement with your service
through Family Sharing.
I'll now hand it over to Hemant
to discuss engineering and implementation of the feature.
Thank you, Bryan. Hi everyone.
I'm Hemant from the App Store Commerce Team.
I'm here today to share with you some engineering
and implementation details to consider
when adopting Family Sharing for in-app purchases.
We have three sections to cover.
We'll start with enabling Family Sharing
per product in App Store Connect.
Then I'll discuss how your application
will be able to entitle service
for the family members of a purchaser.
And I'll finish up with what's available in StoreKit
and our App Store server notifications for Family Sharing.
So let's begin with enabling Family Sharing.
To start, you'll visit App Store Connect
and navigate to the subscription
or non-consumable product that you wish to enable.
You'll see a new section labeled Family Sharing
with an option to turn on.
A confirmation dialogue will be shown.
And once you select Confirm,
your product will be family shareable
for all your customers,
new and existing, within a few hours.
Now we do want to emphasize that once enabled
for a given product, this cannot be reverted.
This is because customers may have based
their purchasing decision on this functionality.
Once enabled in App Store Connect,
StoreKit will now return the property
as family shareable for any products you have enabled.
This property is available in both StoreKit 2
and original StoreKit.
You'll recognize this as shown earlier by Bryan.
This is the property you will need
to allow dynamically controlling Family Sharing specific UI
within your application.
And this is available from iOS 14 and later.
On screen is some sample code of how your application
could make use of the property
from the StoreKit product object.
The isFamilyShareable property
is a simple Boolean allowing you to identify
and merchandise family shareable products
with custom UI or copy.
This property is also available in sandbox
and our Xcode testing environments,
and this allows you to easily test any experience changes
you wish to make for a product that is family shareable.
Now, let's dive deeper into how Family Sharing works
for the family member.
The great news is, Family Sharing works the same way
your server and application are going to be familiar with.
Your application will likely already handle
this family transactions without making any changes,
either server side or client side.
And this is because automatically these purchases
are available to all the family members.
So when your application is launched,
you'll see a transaction available via StoreKit,
just like normal purchase.
This allows you to validate that each family member
is entitled to access to a subscription
or a non-consumable product using their own Apple ID.
With our assumption that your app will work
for family members without any changes,
let's review some key best practices
that ensures your application
delivers an optimal experience in all scenarios.
Whatever version of StoreKit you're using,
it is critical to listen out for transaction at launch
and to continue to do so throughout the lifetime of the app.
This will ensure your app never misses a transaction.
This is also important for other scenarios
such as Ask to Buy, PSD2, or subscription offer codes
where a transaction may be finalized outside of your app.
Before you merchandise any products to the customer,
it is another best practice
to ensure you know their status first.
You can do this by interacting with StoreKit directly
or by retrieving and validating their receipt.
You can determine if they have past purchases
that you need to entitle,
and in the scenario where this is a new customer,
you can merchandise to them appropriately.
With these two best practices,
you can reduce customer escalation,
minimize refunds, negative reviews,
and ultimately improve the customer experience.
For a deeper dive on this subject, check out the session
from WWDC Implement Proactive In-App Purchase Restore.
Now, let's illustrate what a new purchase look like
for a family members and their devices.
The purchaser initiates a purchase
on their device just like normal.
As this product is family shareable,
transaction will be created for each family member.
If you're following our best practices,
your application will see this new transaction
upon launch or in real time from StoreKit.
At this point, you can validate
and entitle service like any other transaction.
One thing to note, we have implemented a delay
for the family transaction.
This delay allows the purchaser
time to disable Family Sharing if they choose to do so.
Let's take the same illustration,
but for an existing subscription purchase.
As mentioned earlier, for existing purchases,
Family Sharing is not enabled by default.
The purchaser would need to enable Family Sharing
from the Manage Subscription page
for each existing subscription.
Once enabled, the transaction for each family members
would be created shortly thereafter.
The ownership type property available in StoreKit
and our server API allows you to distinguish
between the purchaser and the family member.
As Bryan shared earlier, if your application
wanted to have a custom onboarding experience
for family members, then this is the property you would use,
or this could be helpful
if you wanted to identify a customer
who has the ability to manage the subscription,
then you would look for the value purchased.
The property can be found within the objects
of each transaction,
and are also available in the app receipt.
Next up, handling subscriber events.
There are unique scenarios to be aware of
as there are times you may need to revoke access
from a family member, such as when a purchaser
has disabled Family Sharing completely
or perhaps the purchaser has received a refund
for the subscription or a non-consumable.
Finally, it may be the case that either
of the family member or the purchaser
is no longer part of the family unit.
To account for the scenarios,
we have the information you need via StoreKit
in iOS 14 and later
and from our App Store server notification.
Let's take a look at how you would check for this scenario
in this code example.
As you receive updates for your transaction
from your transaction listener,
you should check for the presence
of the revocationDate property.
This tells you this transaction has been revoked
and the customer is no longer entitled to the product.
However, it is important to note
that there could be other transaction
that entitle customers to the same or different products,
so you should check and make sure the customer
is receiving what they are paying for.
If you're still using original StoreKit,
you need to use a callback method
called didRevokeEntitlementsForProductIdentifiers.
This is the same signal that some entitlements
may have changed for this customers
and you should verify their status.
In addition, we have an App Store server
notification type called Revoke.
This real time server to server notification
is an indication
that there may have been changes to entitlements.
This notification is available for both version one
and version two notifications.
So when you receive either of this callbacks,
it is important to reestablish the correct entitlements,
meaning it's important to iterate
through the entire transaction history
as these customers may have had multiple entitlements.
So if one has been revoked,
there maybe another transaction entitling the customer
for the same or a different product.
By doing this, in those cases,
you're going to ensure there is no service interruption.
So let's briefly review
the App Store server notification types we have today.
Here, we have a list of the V2 notification,
and the great news is,
you'll get all the relevant lifecycle notification
for the family members you would expect to receive
in order to keep those customer entitlements
up to date on your server.
And we'll omit the ones that are exclusively relevant
to the purchaser.
If you're still using V1 notification,
we'll get the equivalent lifecycle updates too.
Also, if you have not already added your server endpoint
in App Store Connect, you can do so at any time
and experiment in the sandbox environment
to help you develop support
for this important lifecycle updates.
Finally, let's cover what's available
in sales and trends section in App Store Connect.
With the subscription report, you may have questions,
such as, How many paid subscriptions do I have by product?
Or how many customers have access including family members?
Available in the subscription report
is the subscriber column.
This column will provide you the count of customers
who have access to the subscription.
This includes the primary subscribers
and any entitled family members.
Note that this field is only populated
if the record represents
more than three active subscriptions for your product.
To close out today, we would like to encourage you
to consider Family Sharing functionality
with either your new or existing products.
You should clearly communicate Family Sharing availability
and its value proposition.
Remember, Family Sharing provides customer privacy
and can help reduce credential sharing.
You can also find guidance on in-app purchases,
including subscriptions, on the Apple Developer website.